Add a new tutorial for Assignment 6.2. (#34)
UWC2-APIDOC/to-do-service-au24: docs/tutorials/tutorial_sy.md

---
layout: page
---

# Tutorial: Change the due-date of a task

> In this tutorial, you change the due-date of a task in the service.

Author: Done!

Expect this tutorial to take about 15 minutes to complete.

## Before you start

> 1. Make sure you've completed the [Before you start a tutorial](../before-you-start-a-tutorial.md) topic on the development system you'll use for the tutorial.

Author: Done!

> 2. Make sure that a task already exists in the service or follow the [Add a new task tutorial](add-a-new-task.md). You'll need the `id` of the [`task`](../api/task.md) resource that you'll be changing.

Author: Done!

## Change a task's due-date

Changing a task's due-date requires that you `PATCH` the `due_date` property of a [`task`](../api/task.md) resource.

To change the task's due-date:

> 1. Make sure your local service is running, or start it by using this command, if it's not.

Author: Done!

    ```shell
    cd <your-github-workspace>/to-do-service/api
    json-server -w to-do-db-source.json
    ```

> 2. Run this command to make a `PATCH` request. Substitute `<date>` with the desired due-date in [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) format, and `<id>` with the `id` of the task that should be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In another command-line window, run this command to make a `PATCH` request. Substitute `<date>` with the new due-date in [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) format, and `<id>` with the `id` of the task that should be changed.
```
Because there are two things to substitute, you could also list them in a bullet list under the ordered list item by intending the list entries. This would make each property that needs to be updated more visible.

Author: Done!

    ```shell
    curl -d "due_date=<date>" -X PATCH http://localhost:3000/tasks/<id>
    ```

    For example, if you want to change the due-date of task `1` to `2024-10-28T14:00`, run:

    ```shell
    curl -d "due_date=2024-10-28T14:00" -X PATCH http://localhost:3000/tasks/1
    ```

> 3. Check the response body, which should include the same `id` as the task you changed, as well as the updated `due_date` value. For example, if you changed task `1` to have a due-date of `2024-10-28T14:00`, the response might look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The command returns the response body, which should include the same `id` as the task you changed, as well as the updated `due_date` value. For example, if you changed task `1` to have a due-date of `2024-10-28T14:00`, the response might look like:
```
This change is to help new users who might not automatically make the association that what the command returns is the response body.

Author: Done!

    ```js
    {
      "user_id": 1,
      "title": "Grocery shopping",
      "description": "eggs, bacon, gummy bears",
      "due_date": "2024-10-28T14:00",
      "warning": "-10",
      "id": 1
    }
    ```

> After doing this tutorial using cURL, you might like to repeat it in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing this tutorial using cURL, you might like to repeat it in
```

Author: Done!
